with so many web and seo agencies out
there how do you pick the one that's
gonna be the best fit to help your
business get results hey i'm sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business growth show okay so
these are my top tips for making sure
you choose the best seo or web agency
for your needs first and foremost are
they quick to respond is their
communication effective and clear not
just from when you make the first
inquiry with them which is of course
important as they want to show they're
keen and willing to win your business
but also ongoing so it's important that
if you're going to work with them on the
project they're going to respond fast to
either emails or calls or set up video
calls with you
to make sure that you've got a clear
communication channel and things don't
drag on and you get timelines and
deadlines met
are they transparent so rather than just
trying to ram their products or services
down your neck
do they say look these are the types of
companies we typically help we want to
take time to understand your goals and
then we can advise if we can help you
out or perhaps we can't and then we'll
recommend a company that does
rather than just trying to sell you from
the offset which no one likes right do
they take us the time to understand how
your business actually works do they ask
questions around
the size of your company who you serve
um what you're looking to do your
business how you're operating now if
you're doing any marketing right now and
how that's going just to to really
understand the ins and outs of your
company as ultimately how can you
suggest the solution until you know that
are they asking questions around your
ideal customer profile so if for example
you work with smbs perhaps you target
marketing directors or you target ceos
or business owners every company's got
their own ideal customer ranging from if
you're b2b it could be a small to
medium-sized business or perhaps you
target large enterprise massive size
companies with a thousand plus staff and
then do they take the time to understand
the exact products or services you offer
things like the average order value of
your products and maybe even the profit
margins just they can really understand
kind of how much if you do if they do
work with you on that seo
or the website kind of what you need to
sell to see your return on the
investment um against the service you
might go for
do they understand where you are right
now
so perhaps you've already got a website
right now but it's not working hard for
you so maybe you've got a website but
it's not generating enough leads so
perhaps it generates two a week
but
in 12 months time you want to get to say
10 10 leads in the website per week
that's important because perhaps your
close rate is let's say four and ten
you close four deals out of every 10
leads so if you get 10 leads per week
you know you can get four deals over the
line so perhaps that's where you want to
get to so really asking questions about
what's important what kinds of returns
do you want to see from this seo from
this website um maybe if you're talking
to an seo agency perhaps you want to get
rank one perhaps you offer accountancy
software um so when someone search
searches accountancy software just for
small businesses which can be a
competitive term you wanna in 12 months
time get ranked for that or perhaps you
want to get ranked for best accountancy
software for financial companies as an
example maybe that's one of your key
goals because you know if you can get
that you can drive a lot of traffic to a
site and a lot of revenue so
understanding your key plans and
aspirations for your business
do they ask you about the the market the
competitors so if you're in business
you're likely to know some of your key
competitors
are they going to review those with you
find out what's working well for them
and take the best bits and pieces and
nuggets from those
and whilst they're asking points and
questions are they actually adding value
are they adding insights so they saying
so you might say for example i want a
new website because i need to drive more
leads our current website is not driving
enough inquiries so you could say look
have you considered
seo for your website have you considered
paid ads where do your customers
typically hang out oh they listen to a
lot of podcasts maybe we should look at
that so they're asking questions but are
they also suggesting ideas that are
perhaps things you've not thought about
perhaps only things that a specialist
web or seo company could advise so you
know you're in the right hands of
someone who's going to suggest and bring
valuable input to the table
and of course are they in line with your
budget expectations as there's no point
in going with a company that's minimum
budget guideline is perhaps 30 grand
when you've only got let's say 5 to 10
gay for the website and maybe
a grand couple grand a month for seo so
making sure they're in line with that
and they can also meet your expectations
of when you need the project live or
when you need to see results from your
seo campaign
one of the most important things can
they show examples of results of clients
that they've actually helped so saying
look this is a client we started perhaps
they were on
unranked on google and after six months
of working for us we got them page one
for some of their main terms so can they
share that with you or if it was a
website perhaps they could show you
their previous website and the results
of their new website of how much
traffic's gone up how much conversion
rates rather have gone up in terms of
visitors into leads or visitors to sales
and some of those important
stats have they got solid social proof
so
one of the things most of us look for we
want to look for that the company
actually has some great reviews whether
that's google reviews or other channels
and have they got references that you
can actually talk to
and that can show that they've done a
good job perhaps you can chat to them on
email or the phone to prove that they're
a legitimate and helpful company
and do they practice what they preach
so
it's all good a web company offering you
seo or offering you a great website but
they actually have the results
themselves so if they're trying to ship
you seo
can they prove that they've got rankings
for their own services as well as that
and finally can they walk you through
the exact process they're going to take
once they've understood your goals your
objectives your business your problems
and where you want to get to and say 12
months time can they walk you through
the process so making sure that they can
say look here's where we are now and
this is our proven process we're gonna
guide you through with an account
manager
this is what it'll look like for example
on month one we'll analyze your website
do a full audit full report if we're
doing seo perhaps we'll do keyword
research then perhaps month two we'll
start doing on-site content creation
then we'll start looking at link
building content distribution reporting
setting up analytics and all this good
stuff so basically giving you a
step-by-step guide of who you'll be
working with how they'll make it happen
and how you'll measure results which
you'll agree to together and there we
have it those are some of my top tips
for making sure you choose the seo or
web agency that's the best fit for your
goals
as always if you enjoyed this episode do
hit that subscribe button and with that
i shall catch you on the next one cheers